In this video, we're going to be working on the head of our animal, adding some is if your animal
has ears and doing a lot of sculpting of the face.
I've added a second image right into my scene here so you can see what I'm talking about.
I've also got my pure RF board with my images, but it's a little bit harder for me to record that while
I'm talking to you because it gets in the way.
But I wanted to show you the shape of the cat that I'm working with and the broad areas that I need
to be taking into consideration as I'm going through this process.
So you can see the mouth has a certain shape to it that has a squareness on the side.
The two sides here goes down into a point and then up into a triangle.
And within it we have the nose making that sort of shape.
So this is the shape that both of these two cats have of ours to look at.
One of these other cats say this one.
It has a lot more of a triangle.
So from the bridge of the nose down to the bottom, left over the bottom of the bottom right of the
mouth there and back up.
So it makes more of a triangle with a little bit of a up peak where their mouth is represented.
So I looked at it.
This cat also has a very wide head.
It kind of looks a little bit like a chubby cat, doesn't it, because it's furry and its heads a little
bit wider than it is high.
Whereas I think the sort of cat that I'm interested in is has a little bit more of a higher head.
It's still wider than it is higher, but it's not quite as wide as this cat over here.
The other reason is that I've dropped this new cat into the scene as I think I'll end up current coloring
my cat as black.
So I want to have this in here so we get used to the colors as we're going through the process.
Now, the next thing in terms of blocking it out is that I'm looking at here is we've got a fairly pronounced
bridge of the nose that sticks out and similar to humans in many ways, you know, eyes and nose, mouth,
etc., but just the shape a little bit differently.
And the eyes you can see the inside corner to the outside corner has much more of a slope on it like
that that we need to take into consideration.
Morrissey human would be a little bit more straight on just under those.
So as we're drawing our stories, we're sculpting the eyes.
We need to be taking those points into consideration.
And also the thing that is a little bit tricky is where do the ears join the head on a cat or whatever
animal you're working on and you see with this cats is they match right up to the very size.
There's a nice straight line that's made and where they join is roughly above the inside of the eye.
So we can use that as a point for where we we have the ears joining the head.
And there's a bit of a natural curvature where there is a natural curvature to the head and then a little
bit of a cavity that we need to create within the ear.
And then the ear itself is a pretty straightforward kind of triangle with not too pointy an end on it,
in on it.
And so the overall shape of the head itself is going to be obviously oval in shape if you just draw
around the outside here and it's definitely a little bit wider than it is high.
It's not quite round.
It's a little bit more squashed down, whereas a human head, human heads tend to be a little bit more
oval that way.
Or is the cat.
We're kind of rotating the head a little more sideways when we're looking at it from this front on view.
If we zoom around over here and have a look at the side on, this isn't really the best cat, I think,
for me to be using in many ways.
Where am I was turned off my model, which is currently so-called.
Shame on me.
Let's rename that to Cat.
They would go on as hide that for a moment.
So looking from a side on point of view, you can see the ears are heading all the way back here where
they join.
Actually, no, this probably skin or fur there, isn't it?
That, I'd say is from there to there.
So when we're looking at our front on view, it looked like it was on the front of the head or, you
know, up in the sky.
Front and front.
Whereas when we looked from the side on view for this particular cat, we can see that it's not quite
so, not quite so.
Obviously, front to front at the back of the ear is a lot back on the head.
And then the head shape is like rounded.
And we have a fairly flat front of the face, flat front of the face and flat nose making that sort
of angle.
And the brow does stick out somewhat.
It is a little bit stuck out.
So you don't to have a head that's too flat like that, you need to have it sticking out a little bit
more where we've got the bridge of the nose.
And then a little bit in here, I think we'll play around with after we've modelled the head.
And up here for this particular cat you can see just looks like a straight line.
Zinczenko But when I turn my cat back on, you say it looks a little bit odd.
I think once we get the head in there, it might look a little bit better, but at the moment seems
like the next little bit long.
But we'll see how that all plays out.
Throw you over to your challenge, which is to sculpt the head start by understanding the main shapes
and lines of the head with whatever particular animal you're working with.
It's going to have some similarities.
The human head that we've worked on, but obviously it's going to have them.
The shapes and sizes and placements different block out those shapes first, add some clay strips down
if you like, and mold it into shape and then add more details once you've got those broader shapes
into place.
And as I did before, when you come back from working on your head.
I'll just quickly take you through a speed recording of me going through my cat head.
OK.
So you take on that challenge, sculpt the head, I'll see back here when you done.
Radio, let's start by adding the shape of the front of the mouth, just that triangle kind of shape
he's talking about before adding the bridge of the nose to smoothing out as we go.
I'm using clayey strips.
I like the old clay strips and down and down smudge around.
Just line it up.
Look it out.
Reference images quite a lot.
Doing lots of smoothing.
Just digging as well with the clay strips.
So techniques that you're familiar with by now with the clay strip.
I'm just going around doing a little bit of pushing and playing with the grab tool.
I kind of bounce around all the different tools depending upon when I get stuck.
So if it feels like I'm not getting enough purchase, then I might try another tool trying to make the
nose a little bit pointier at the end there, digging in the eyes just with the draw tool.
Now the crease tool trying to get that sharper line, you could use the draw sharp tool as well in this
instance, trying to get the edges, trying to get a little bit of definition by using that crease tool
and then flattening the bridge of the nose, getting some blue bit more brow.
And there seems a bit odd saying eyebrows for Catts.
Kessner really have eyebrows because that's all covered in hair.
But they've got brows and those brows above their eyes.
So technically eyebrows digging around the nose.
You can see that I'm having a little bit of an issue with the resolution of my mesh, particularly around
the nose.
So if you're finding that, then jump into Duyen Toppo and increase the value in there so you get more
resolution.
You don't get that kind of pixelation popping in a mouth.
I tried the happy smiley cat mouth, which technically is kind of where their mouth goes, but looks
a little bit silly doing that.
Cats tend not to be smiling as they're just hanging out.
You know how cats are so just gone for that smaller mouth at the moment.
Then we'll see how it looks when we cover it with hair and fur.
Might need to dig in a little bit more.
It's trying to get the shape of the head.
The grab tool with a big setting to push and pull the entire head, flatten out the front of it a little
bit, and then just adding more detail, more features, more brow using the clay strips, digging things
out, getting the crevices, looking the way they're supposed to look.
Just the normal process we've been through.
I did have a little bit of problem with the chin, depending upon which image I look at.
Some cats have a larger chin, some have a smaller chin, kind of that area, double chin, if it was
humans, if you will, underneath the the bottom of the main chin there.
So I was having a little bit of trouble with that, just trying to get the right shape when it looked
like one of the other cats in my images.
It just didn't feel right.
And then at this point, I'm saying I think I've made a seal, and that's mostly because we don't have
any E's in there yet.
So let's add some is the way I went about doing this is I added a cube mesh, scaled it to size, got
it roughly in the position of where I wanted the East to be.
Then add a subdivision surface modifier, increase the values up to three four Renda and viewport clicked
on page very important and then jumped up to edit mode and added in some extra loop cut.
So control off of the loop cuts and then just moving those around.
Now I'm editing the cage itself, which is going to change the underlying structure that's been subdivided,
rotating it around the position that I want, move it, kind of get that forward.
I'm stalking my prey, kind of lean to the is a lot of animal is are going to be naturally straight
up or back.
But these ones I want to have forward and then I can use that cage.
So I'm in edit mode.
I'm just hitting three on the keyboard to get face and that allows me to move that geometry around.
Of course, I could have just sculpted it just by using the snakelike tool and writing out, but decided
to go with this approach.
And at this point I'm pretty happy with the air, so I'm going to mirror that or add modifier at the
mirror modifier and just do a little bit more proportional editing with the head.
And at this stage, I wanna join my ears to my head.
So I'm gonna go out and just check that I have in preferences that I have the ball tool as my add on
is installed and yes, it is already hit and on the keyboard find edit and then I'm going to click on
the Cube which the is and also click on the cat.
So control click on the cat and then just click on Union and that will merge those two things together.
If I scroll around, look on the inside you can see that it removed all the bottom faces from the ease
and make sure that is welded onto the head of the cat.
We just check that by grabbing some my sculpt tool.
You can see it's modifying the the ease and the head at the same time.
That's important just to check that it's all connected and your wireframe doesn't have half of the ease
ticking through the head of the animal.
Okay, so I'm just speeding things up again, just playing around with a little bit of remeasured to
make sure that I've got the right amount of density for my cat.
That's a little bit too low.
Point zero zero four within rematch seems fine.
So to make sure that the ease roughly matched the head, just hollowing it out.
So back into my draw tool, using control to dig building adulatory to the back of the is clay tool
once again.
And then if you have a look at images of cats with their ease, it's pretty gross.
Something to search for on the Internet inside of cat ears.
But you can see roughly where the ear hole is supposed to be in the ear.
So I've tried to approximate that a little bit.
Not that we're ever gonna be looking inside the cat's ear, but it just helped me to get through the
process of making the ear just a little bit of last shaping and building.
And I wouldn't recommend this if.
Slower computer that went into edit mode and pretty much nearly crashed my system, just scaling up
the size of the head and then going around and smoothing the process a little bit more, smoothing a
little bit more, looking at the head and generally declaring for now the head and the ears are done.
So hopefully you've had a good success working on your animal as well.
Remember that this is something that takes many tries, many goes, much practice to get looking the
way you want to.
And also, remember, we're gonna be covering it with hair so we can forgive a few of the things that
aren't exactly perfect.
Okay, great stuff.
I will see you in the next lecture.